[Music]
what two Harry Potter Katniss Everdeen
and Frodo all have in common with the
heroes of ancient myths what if I told
you they are all variants of the same
hero do you believe that
Joseph Campbell did he studied myths
from all over the world and published a
book called the hero with a thousand
faces retelling dozens of stories and
explaining how each represents the mono
myth or hero's journey so what is the
hero's journey think of it as a cycle
the journey begins and ends in the
hero's ordinary world but the quest
passes through an unfamiliar special
world along the way there are some key
events think about your favorite book or
movie does it follow this pattern status
quo that's where we start one o'clock
call to adventure the hero receives a
mysterious message an invitation a
challenge
two o'clock assistance the hero needs
some help
probably from someone older wiser three
o'clock departure the hero crosses the
threshold from his normal safe home and
enters the special world and adventure
we're not in Kansas anymore four o'clock
trials being a hero is hard work
our hero solves a riddle slays a monster
escapes from a traffic
five o'clock approach it's time to face
the biggest ordeal the hero's worst fear
six o'clock
crisis this is the heroes darkest hour
he faces death and possibly even dies
only to be reborn seven Spock treasure
as a result the hero claims some
treasure special recognition or power
eight o'clock result this can vary
between stories to the monsters bow down
before the hero or do they chase him as
he flees in the special world nine
o'clock returned after all that
adventure the hero returns to his
ordinary world ten o'clock new life this
quest has changed the hero he has
outgrown his old life eleven o'clock
resolution all the tangled plot lines
get straightened out
12 o'clock status quo but upgraded to a
new level nothing is quite the same once
you're a hero many popular books and
movies follow this ancient formula
pretty closely but let's see how well
the Hunger Games fits the hero's journey
template when does Katniss Everdeen hear
a call to adventure that gets the story
moving when her sister's name is called
from the lottery
how about assistance is anyone going to
help her on her adventure Haymitch what
about departure does she leave her
ordinary world she gets on a train to
the capital okay so you get the idea
what do you have in common with Harry
Potter Katniss Everdeen and Frodo
well you're human just like them the
hero's journey myth exists in all human
cultures and keeps getting updated
because we humans reflect on our world
through symbolic stories of our own
lives you leave your comfort zone have
an experience that transforms you and
then you recover and do it again
you don't literally slay dragons or
fight Voldemort but you face problems
just as scary Joseph Campbell said in
the cave you fear to enter lies the
treasure you seek what is the symbolic
cave you fear to enter auditions for the
school play baseball tryouts
love watch for this formula in books
movies and TV shows you come across you
will certainly see it again but also be
sensitive to it in your own life listen
for your call to adventure accept the
challenge conquer your fear and claim
the treasure you seek and then do it all
over again